it's a very impressive problem if anyone
knows the power of Mount Everest its
Seattle's Jim Whittaker he was the first
American to reach the summit in 1963 and
when that's no close Lauren laughs I
said did you hear that
Seattle's Scott Fischer and Renton's
Doug Hanson died up there on Everest out
in that wind Fischer's Widow Jeanne
price remembers finding out it was
Saturday May 10th it was five o'clock in
the morning and I thought oh my gosh I
can't possibly tell the kids I'll I'll
die myself if I have to tell the kids
this news it's just so big and so I was
sobbing so loud it woke up Andy who is
just nine and we talked about it was
okay to be mad at dad anger was part of
grief
eight people died on Mount Everest in
that storm
some of them considered novices others
were among the best climbers in the
world with all the dangers involved
you're probably asking yourself the same
question that mountain climbers get
asked every day when they face risks at
high places why
well I feel that's the question why not
Brett bishop is a guide he's been to the
top of Everest
he says climbing gives meaning to part
of his life part of the climbing big
peaks is the danger if you mitigated
that the allure wouldn't be there I mean
part of climbing is his risk I've been
twice summit of Everest Woodinville z--
Todd Burleson has led seven trips to
Everest he says it still has a hold on
him oh I think all challenges of life
have been compared to climbing Mount
Everest we all have our Mount Everest
we've heard that line a thousand times
and it is a great challenge for me it's
living a dream you know I've dreamt
about climbing it's a passion it's a
sport that I love I mean Seattle's ed
Viesturs has been to the top of the
world four times if you really break it
down into is this significant to the
world or to anything no it's not it's a
personal satisfying challenging endeavor
to climb mountains some people think
it's romantic some people think it's
totally harebrained I do it for personal
reasons and the people think it's great
that's fine if they criticize me that's
fine too you know I might typical
responses I'm happy doing what I do are
you happy with your life or as Scott
Fisher told me two years ago this is who
I am this is what I am I am a mountain
climber
I do this because this is what I do I
think to call mountain climbing a sport
at least for me for me it's my life sort
of tribulus --is mountain climbing yeah
but it's it would worry me I'm sure too
my son was off doing what I do you know
I mean it and and I'm losing friends and
climbing partners edited an alarming
fast rate and so that worries me I don't
like that you remember what George
Mallory said back in 1924 when someone
asked him why he was so possessed by
Everest because it's there he said
Mallory later died trying to climb it so
if there's an ocean we cross it there's
a record we break if there's disease we
KITT if there's wrong
we write it and if there's a mountain we
climb